>> Kyle Simpson: So our third operation
that we wanna look at, reduce.
Reduce is fundamentally
a combining operation.
Reduce doesn't operate on a single value.
Reduce operates on two values at a time.
That's a big difference between map and
filter.
With map and filter,
they only operate on a single value.
Reduce always operates
on two values at a time.
And when I call it a combining operation,
what I mean is we take those two values.
And in some way, shape or form,
we combine them into one.
So, we take values.
We combine them into one and
then we start over.
And we say,
do I have that value plus another?
I need to combine those two and
then that value plus another?
we just keep going through our list until
we don't have any more things to combine.
So at the end result of a reduce,
you typically just have one single
discrete value rather than a list.
Cuz your starting with the first two items
and combining them, and then combining
that one with the next one, and
that one with the next one, and so forth.
And at the end,
you just have the combined value.
You don't have a list anymore.
So, reduce is different.
It doesn't produce a new list,
generally speaking.
>> Kyle Simpson: Reduce is actually,
probably the most powerful of all
the operators and it certainly is
powerful enough that it deserves
the title of the Swiss Army Knife
of functional programming.
Because once you learn how to use reduce,
you start realizing that a bunch
of stuff you do is just a reduce.
It could be done as a reduce.
I could do that as a reduce.
We've already had questions in this course
and some people online that have said,
well, what about this?
Is that a reduce?
The answer is yes, because reduce really
is the Swiss Army knife that can do
a bunch of different things.
It is not always that it has to
return a single discreet value.
You can reduce a list to another list.
And counterintuitively,
you can reduce a list to a list that
was even longer than the original.
Because reduce is not really about
reduction, it's really about combining.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, let's look at
building ourselves a reduce utility.
You'll notice that here, my reducer
function which is mult up there.
It takes two parameters,
cuz it doesn't make any sense
to combine a value with itself.
We're always combining two values.
That's a different shape and that's gonna
be really important to keep in your head
as we finish through
the end of this course,
you're gonna wanna keep that in mind.
That's a different kind of shape and
a different kind of operation.
We're taking two values.
In this case, we're multiplying together.
That's how we're combining them.
How much you combine two strings?
>> Kyle Simpson: If I had a call
to a function called foo and
it took two individual strings as
arguments and I wanted to return a single
value back, what's an example of
ways that I could combine those two?
>> Kyle Simpson: I could concatenate
the two strings together.
That would be a way of combining them,
but I can even get more sophisticated.
Here's my Swiss Army knife.
I could say, the combination
of these two is I'm just gonna
pick the longer of the two and
throw the other one away.
That's still a valid way of
describing the combination.
Combining these two individual values
could be combining them into an array
of the two values.
That's a reasonable way to combine them.
There's lots and
lots, and probably infinite number of
ways that any two values can be combined.
And that's what we mean when we say
that it's such a Swiss Army knife,
because you can do whatever you
want with those two values.
What would you do if
you had two functions?
How might you combine two functions?
>> Kyle Simpson: A composition.
We had somebody asked that earlier,
as well.
Compose and pipe.
Those are fundamentally reductions.
A list of functions that we compose is the
same thing as a list of functions that we
reduce where the reduction is
composed the two items together and
then compose two more,
and compose two more.
Call one,
give its output is the input to the next.
That's what it is.
So our combined utility here
needs to start within a list,
arr and the reducer function.
But we also typically will
provide an initial value.
That's important.
We provide an initial value.
Because sometimes your reduction
since it's operating on two things,
sometimes you need to have
an initial value for one of those.
And you therefore,
start the reduction with the first item
in the list plus the initial value.
So, my reduction takes
the first value in the list.
The initial value and it combines them,
and then goes to the second, and combines,
and so forth.
On the other hand, sometimes you don't
need to provide an initial value at all.
Because the first item in the list
can be taken as the initial value and
we can start the reduction with
the second item on the list, and
just start combining that way.
You'll have both of those cases
arise in your programming.
Sometimes, you'll need an initial
value and sometimes you won't.
>> Kyle Simpson: Some utilities
will allow that to be optional.
Some utilities require you
to provide an initial value.
And in those cases,
if you have to provide an initial value,
what you can do is actually pass in
the first value of the list as your
initial value and
then start your reduction at position two.
So, some utilities are smart enough to
let that be optional and some aren't.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here, my combine against
a list of numbers where I'm multiplying.
I multiply 1 times 2 times 4 times 5.
Do I need an initial value there for
a multiplication of numbers?
>> Kyle Simpson: I use the initial
value 1, but did I need to?
>> Kyle Simpson: There,
it would have been sufficient for
me to just multiply the numbers
together without an initial value.
My utility doesn't support that,
cuz it's a simplified utility.
But if my utility did make that one
optional, I could have left it off.
But here's an example of a reduction
that requires an initial value.
Cuz here,
I wanna reduce with my acronym reducer.
Each time it gets call, that's gonna be
provided a string like a concatenated or
a growing string and
then a word to add on to it.
But you'll notice I wanna take just
the first character of each string and
combine it in, cuz I'm making an acronym.
What would happen if I left off the
initial value of empty string down there?
What would be the end result?
>> Speaker 2: You'd end up with undefined
at the beginning of you string?
>> Kyle Simpson: No.
If we left off the initial value,
the default behavior is to start
with the first item as the initial
value which is the word Functional.
And we'd start the reduction at
the second one, which is the word Lights.
So, what would our
ending result string be?
>> Kyle Simpson: To be Functional LJS
instead of FLJS, cuz we'd start with that.
That would come in as string in
our first called acronym and
we keep that whole thing and then we take
word.charAt which is the word Light,
we'd be just taking L and
starting to put it on.
So, we just have functional LJS.
So, here's an example where we really
do legitimately need an initial value.
The previous slide,
we didn't need an initial value.
You'll have both of those cases
that you run across in your coding.
>> Speaker 2: If you
were to set charAt one,
would it give you the same thing as
if you hadn't set the initial value?
Would it still give you Functional LJS?
>> Kyle Simpson: CharAt is still
gonna try to get the first,
I mean, is gonna try to get a character or
whatever position you asked for.
So if you said charAt of one and
you left the empty string,
you'd end up with UIAT.
The second character of each of those.
>> Speaker 2: I see. Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
if you left off the initial
value empty string,
you would end up with Functional IAT.
What's an example of reducing
across a list of functions?
How about composing functions together?
What's an example of reducing
across a list of promises?
>> Kyle Simpson: You could compose the
promises together by chaining one promise
onto the next one and onto the next one.
And now you'd have a chain,
a series of promises together.
[COUGH] We're coming up on a break here,
but I just wanna leave you with
a thought before that break
that these list operations.
We've been illustrating
them based on arrays.
But really and truly,
these are data structure operations.
And so that all these concepts
that we have been doing
could be generalized to
an object of properties or
to a tree where your different values are
nodes in the tree, or things like that.
As a matter of fact, I have a whole
section in my Functional Light JS book in
the chapter on this operation.
There's a whole section at the end
which goes and implements map, produce,
filter against a binary search tree where
each item that you're
visiting is a node in a tree.
And it's gonna go depth first and
through the tree doing in order universal
through the tree, and so forth.
So you can generalize these ideas
to pretty much any data structure,
but this is what I want you to
contemplate over the break.
Data structures don't always have
to look like data structures.
Sometimes the data structure that you're
gonna operate on is your own code and
I know that might sound awfully strange,
but
we are gonna be working on an exercise
later towards the end of the course.
That's gonna give you a chance
to practice with that, so
I just want you to chew on that.
What would it mean to treat part of
my code, the statements of my code as
a data structure that I wanted to
perform a set of operations against?
What would that even mean?
It sounds very meta, so I just want you to
chew on that and we'll take this break.
When we come back,
we'll work on an excercise to practice
a bunch of these list operations.